.migration-plan.md, before:

# Jason Holt Photography Branding & Content Migration Plan

This document outlines the plan for updating the Jason Holt Photography website to align with the new brand guidelines, focusing on "capturing life's journey" and reorganizing content without changing the fundamental site structure.

## Brand Essence

**Primary Brand Promise (Desktop):** "Capturing Your Life's Timeless Journey, One Moment at a Time."

**Short Tagline (Mobile):** "All Your Life's Moments, Celebrated."

## Page-by-Page Implementation Plan

### 1. Home (`/`)
- Update hero text with new brand promise
- Revise service section to reflect the four photography focus areas:
  - Families & Babies
  - Young Adults & Graduates
  - Couples & Engagements
  - Weddings & Celebrations
- Update primary CTA to "Start Celebrating Your Moments →"
- Ensure supporting content emphasizes the life journey theme

### 2. About (`/about`)
- Reorganize content with tabbed interface:
  - "My Story" - Personal journey as a photographer
  - "My Approach" - Photography philosophy and process
- Incorporate brand pillars (Authenticity, Celebration, Storytelling, Excellence, Relationship)
- Update content to emphasize experience documenting life's journey
- Update CTA to "Let's Tell Your Story →"

### 3. Galleries (`/galleries`)
- Keep the existing masonry implementation
- Update category filters to align with four photography focus areas:
  - Families & Babies
  - Young Adults & Graduates 
  - Couples & Engagements
  - Weddings & Celebrations
- Add category descriptions that tell the "life journey" story
- Update CTA to "Capture Your Story →"

### 4. Experience (`/experience`)
- Reorganize as client experience hub with tabbed interface:
  - "What to Expect" - Client process
  - "Testimonials" - Client reviews
  - "FAQ" - Common questions
- Update content to emphasize the relationship aspect of the brand
- Update CTA to "Book Your Session →"

### 5. Journal (`/journal`)
- Combine blog and client stories in one location
- Use tabs or filtering to organize content types
- Focus on storytelling that highlights life journey milestones
- Update CTA to "Ready to Celebrate Your Moments? Contact Me →"

### 6. Contact (`/contact`)
- Keep existing form and contact information
- Update messaging to align with brand voice
- Add clear booking CTA

### 7. Bookings (`/bookings`)
- Keep existing TidyCal integration
- Update introductory text to align with brand messaging
- Ensure pricing and package names align with four focus areas

## Navigation Updates

Update `lib/theme.ts` to reflect the simplified structure:
```
mainNav: [
  { title: "Home", href: "/" },
  { title: "About", href: "/about" },
  { title: "Galleries", href: "/galleries" },
  { title: "Experience", href: "/experience" },
  { title: "Journal", href: "/journal" },
  { title: "Contact", href: "/contact" }
]
```

## Gallery Category Reorganization

Map existing image categories to new focus areas:

| New Category | Existing Content/Categories to Include |
|--------------|---------------------------------------|
| Families & Babies | family/, newborn images |
| Young Adults & Graduates | portraits/senior-*, headshots/ |
| Couples & Engagements | couples/ (non-wedding) |
| Weddings & Celebrations | weddings/, events/, couples/ (wedding-related) |

## Content Voice Guidelines

All content should be:
- Warm, authentic, and personal
- Professional yet approachable (like a trusted family friend)
- Focused on emotional storytelling and genuine connections
- Consistent in emphasizing life journey milestones
- Clear in communicating the value of documenting all life stages

## CTAs by Page

- **Home:** "Start Celebrating Your Moments →"
- **Galleries/Portfolio:** "Capture Your Story →"
- **About:** "Let's Tell Your Story →"
- **Experience:** "Book Your Session →"
- **Journal:** "Ready to Celebrate Your Moments? Contact Me →"

## Implementation Checklist

- [x] Update site navigation structure
- [x] Update home page content and CTAs 
- [x] Adjust gallery categories and descriptions
- [x] Reorganize About page with tabbed interface
- [x] Create Experience page with tabbed interface
- [x] Create Journal page structure
- [x] Review all CTAs for alignment with guidelines
- [x] Ensure consistent voice across all pages
- [ ] Update image metadata as needed for new categories - *Pending technical implementation*
- [ ] Final review for brand alignment - *In progress*

## Implementation Progress Summary

### Completed Tasks
1. **Navigation Structure**: Updated main navigation to reflect life journey focus
2. **Home Page**: Updated hero section with new brand promise and messaging
3. **Gallery Page**: Reorganized categories to align with four life journey focus areas
4. **About Page**: Implemented tabbed interface with "My Story" and "My Approach" sections
5. **Experience Page**: Created new page with tabbed interface for "What to Expect", "Testimonials", and "FAQ"
6. **Journal Page**: Created from Blog foundation with focus on life's journey stories
7. **Contact Page**: Updated with life journey messaging and CTAs
8. **Bookings Page**: Updated with life journey messaging and photography focus areas
9. **CTAs**: Updated across all pages to match brand guidelines

### Pending Tasks
1. **Image Metadata**: Technical update needed to properly categorize images according to new focus areas
2. **Final Review**: Comprehensive review of all pages for brand consistency

### Technical Notes
- The gallery system has been updated to use the new category names, but backend image metadata may need additional updates to ensure proper categorization
- SEO metadata should be reviewed on all pages to ensure alignment with new brand messaging
- Journal/blog posts should be developed further to reinforce the life journey narrative

Commit message:

refactor: streamline navigation and integrate content into tabs for improved user experience

.migration-plan.md, after:

# Jason Holt Photography Branding & Content Migration Plan

This document outlines the plan for updating the Jason Holt Photography website to align with the new brand guidelines, focusing on "capturing life's journey" and reorganizing content without changing the fundamental site structure.

## Brand Essence

**Primary Brand Promise (Desktop):** "Capturing Your Life's Timeless Journey, One Moment at a Time."

**Short Tagline (Mobile):** "All Your Life's Moments, Celebrated."

## Page-by-Page Implementation Plan

### 1. Home (`/`)
- Update hero text with new brand promise
- Revise service section to reflect the four photography focus areas:
  - Families & Babies
  - Young Adults & Graduates
  - Couples & Engagements
  - Weddings & Celebrations
- Update primary CTA to "Start Celebrating Your Moments →"
- Ensure supporting content emphasizes the life journey theme

### 2. About (`/about`)
- Reorganize content with tabbed interface:
  - "My Story" - Personal journey as a photographer
  - "My Approach" - Photography philosophy and process
- Incorporate brand pillars (Authenticity, Celebration, Storytelling, Excellence, Relationship)
- Update content to emphasize experience documenting life's journey
- Update CTA to "Let's Tell Your Story →"

### 3. Galleries (`/galleries`)
- Keep the existing masonry implementation
- Update category filters to align with four photography focus areas:
  - Families & Babies
  - Young Adults & Graduates 
  - Couples & Engagements
  - Weddings & Celebrations
- Add category descriptions that tell the "life journey" story
- Update CTA to "Capture Your Story →"

### 4. Experience (`/experience`)
- Reorganize as client experience hub with tabbed interface:
  - "What to Expect" - Client process
  - "Testimonials" - Client reviews
  - "FAQ" - Common questions
- Update content to emphasize the relationship aspect of the brand
- Update CTA to "Book Your Session →"

### 5. Journal (`/journal`)
- Combine blog and client stories in one location
- Use tabs or filtering to organize content types
- Focus on storytelling that highlights life journey milestones
- Update CTA to "Ready to Celebrate Your Moments? Contact Me →"

### 6. Contact (`/contact`)
- Keep existing form and contact information
- Update messaging to align with brand voice
- Add clear booking CTA

### 7. Bookings (`/bookings`)
- Keep existing TidyCal integration
- Update introductory text to align with brand messaging
- Ensure pricing and package names align with four focus areas

## Navigation Updates

Update `lib/theme.ts` to reflect the simplified structure:
```
mainNav: [
  { title: "Home", href: "/" },
  { title: "About", href: "/about" },
  { title: "Galleries", href: "/galleries" },
  { title: "Experience", href: "/experience" },
  { title: "Journal", href: "/journal" },
  { title: "Contact", href: "/contact" }
]
```

## Gallery Category Reorganization

Map existing image categories to new focus areas:

| New Category | Existing Content/Categories to Include |
|--------------|---------------------------------------|
| Families & Babies | family/, newborn images |
| Young Adults & Graduates | portraits/senior-*, headshots/ |
| Couples & Engagements | couples/ (non-wedding) |
| Weddings & Celebrations | weddings/, events/, couples/ (wedding-related) |

## Content Voice Guidelines

All content should be:
- Warm, authentic, and personal
- Professional yet approachable (like a trusted family friend)
- Focused on emotional storytelling and genuine connections
- Consistent in emphasizing life journey milestones
- Clear in communicating the value of documenting all life stages

## CTAs by Page

- **Home:** "Start Celebrating Your Moments →"
- **Galleries/Portfolio:** "Capture Your Story →"
- **About:** "Let's Tell Your Story →"
- **Experience:** "Book Your Session →"
- **Journal:** "Ready to Celebrate Your Moments? Contact Me →"

## Implementation Checklist

- [x] Update site navigation structure
- [x] Update home page content and CTAs 
- [x] Adjust gallery categories and descriptions
- [x] Reorganize About page with tabbed interface
- [x] Create Experience page with tabbed interface
- [x] Create Journal page structure
- [x] Review all CTAs for alignment with guidelines
- [x] Ensure consistent voice across all pages
- [ ] Update image metadata as needed for new categories - *Pending technical implementation*
- [ ] Final review for brand alignment - *In progress*

## Navigation Restructuring

To streamline the website's navigation, we've consolidated the menu from 7 items to 5 by:

1. **Merged Contact & Bookings pages**: Combined into a single "Contact" page with tabs:
   - "Contact Me" tab: Contains the contact form and information
   - "Book a Session" tab: Contains the booking form and calendar

2. **Integrated Journal into Experience**: Added Journal content as a tab in the Experience page:
   - "What to Expect" tab: Information about the photography process
   - "Testimonials" tab: Client reviews by category
   - "Journal" tab: Blog posts and client stories
   - "FAQ" tab: Common questions and answers

3. **URL Redirects**: Set up redirects to maintain backward compatibility:
   - `/bookings` → `/contact?tab=book`
   - `/journal` → `/experience?tab=journal`
   - `/journal/:slug` → `/experience?tab=journal`

## Implementation Progress Summary

### Completed Tasks
1. **Navigation Structure**: Updated main navigation to reflect life journey focus and streamlined from 7 to 5 items
2. **Home Page**: Updated hero section with new brand promise and messaging
3. **Gallery Page**: Reorganized categories to align with four life journey focus areas
4. **About Page**: Implemented tabbed interface with "My Story" and "My Approach" sections
5. **Experience Page**: Enhanced with tabbed interface for "What to Expect", "Testimonials", "Journal", and "FAQ"
6. **Contact Page**: Updated with life journey messaging and integrated Bookings functionality as a tab
7. **Redirects**: Configured redirects for deprecated standalone pages
8. **CTAs**: Updated across all pages to match brand guidelines

### Pending Tasks
1. **Image Metadata**: Technical update needed to properly categorize images according to new focus areas
2. **Final Review**: Comprehensive review of all pages for brand consistency

### Technical Notes
- The gallery system has been updated to use the new category names, but backend image metadata may need additional updates to ensure proper categorization
- SEO metadata should be reviewed on all pages to ensure alignment with new brand messaging
- Journal/blog posts should be developed further to reinforce the life journey narrative
- Tab selection via URL parameters allows for direct navigation to specific tabs
